journal/week1.md, before:

# Week 1 — App Containerization

## 1. Required Homework

### 1.1. Review of the week's videos

- [x] Watched: [How to Ask for Technical Help](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDPqmwKMP7Y&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=29)
- [x] Watched: [Grading Homework Summaries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FKAScachFgk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=25)
- [x] Watched: [Week 1 - Live Streamed Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJnNe5Nv4tE&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=22)
- [x] Watched: [Remember to Commit Your Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-idMgFFcpg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=23)
- [x] Watched: [Chirag's Week 1 - Spending Considerations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OAMHu1NiYoI&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=24)
- [x] Watched: [Ashish's Week 1 - Container Security Considerations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjZz4D0B-cA&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=25)
- [x] Watched: [Containerize Application (Dockerfiles, Docker Compose)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJnNe5Nv4tE&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=22)
- [x] Watched: [Document the Notification Endpoint for the OpenAI Document](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27)
> **Note:**
> [OpenAPI Specification v3.1.0](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0)
- [x] Watched: [Write a Flask Backend Endpoint for Notifications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27)
- [x] Watched: [Write a React Page for Notifications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27) 
> **Note:**
> Registration's confirmation code `hardcoded` to '1234'
- [x] Watched: [Run DynamoDB Local Container and ensure it works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbQNMaa6zTg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=28)
- [x] Watched: [Run Postgres Container and ensure it works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbQNMaa6zTg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=28)

### 1.2. Containerize the applications

#### 1.2.1. Backend-flask

- Created a [Dockerfile](../backend-flask/Dockerfile)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.10-slim-buster

WORKDIR /backend-flask

COPY requirements.txt requirements.txt
RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt

COPY . .

ENV FLASK_ENV=development

EXPOSE 4567

CMD [ "python3", "-m" , "flask", "run", "--host=0.0.0.0", "--port=4567"]
```

- Test `docker build`

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker build -t backend-flask:test .
Sending build context to Docker daemon  33.79kB
Step 1/8 : FROM python:3.10-slim-buster
 ---> 934047247b20
Step 2/8 : WORKDIR /backend-flask
 ---> Running in db01081dadcc
Removing intermediate container db01081dadcc
 ---> 84c3ed779f2b
Step 3/8 : COPY requirements.txt requirements.txt
 ---> 420141812611
Step 4/8 : RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt
 ---> Running in f644ece4d265
Collecting flask
  Downloading Flask-2.2.3-py3-none-any.whl (101 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 101.8/101.8 kB 7.1 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting flask-cors
  Downloading Flask_Cors-3.0.10-py2.py3-none-any.whl (14 kB)
Collecting Werkzeug>=2.2.2
  Downloading Werkzeug-2.2.3-py3-none-any.whl (233 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 233.6/233.6 kB 33.3 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting Jinja2>=3.0
  Downloading Jinja2-3.1.2-py3-none-any.whl (133 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 133.1/133.1 kB 49.2 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting click>=8.0
  Downloading click-8.1.3-py3-none-any.whl (96 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 96.6/96.6 kB 37.2 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting itsdangerous>=2.0
  Downloading itsdangerous-2.1.2-py3-none-any.whl (15 kB)
Collecting Six
  Downloading six-1.16.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (11 kB)
Collecting MarkupSafe>=2.0
  Downloading MarkupSafe-2.1.2-cp310-cp310-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (25 kB)
Installing collected packages: Six, MarkupSafe, itsdangerous, click, Werkzeug, Jinja2, flask, flask-cors
Successfully installed Jinja2-3.1.2 MarkupSafe-2.1.2 Six-1.16.0 Werkzeug-2.2.3 click-8.1.3 flask-2.2.3 flask-cors-3.0.10 itsdangerous-2.1.2
WARNING: Running pip as the 'root' user can result in broken permissions and conflicting behaviour with the system package manager. It is recommended to use a virtual environment instead: https://pip.pypa.io/warnings/venv

[notice] A new release of pip available: 22.3.1 -> 23.0.1
[notice] To update, run: pip install --upgrade pip
Removing intermediate container f644ece4d265
 ---> af551f3164ca
Step 5/8 : COPY . .
 ---> ba7a4fb6d899
Step 6/8 : ENV FLASK_ENV=development
 ---> Running in 555d0da1d10f
Removing intermediate container 555d0da1d10f
 ---> 55b4d21213f9
Step 7/8 : EXPOSE 4567
 ---> Running in 00979636d271
Removing intermediate container 00979636d271
 ---> 088a9e47f6ae
Step 8/8 : CMD [ "python3", "-m" , "flask", "run", "--host=0.0.0.0", "--port=4567"]
 ---> Running in 21e7fcbc4e54
Removing intermediate container 21e7fcbc4e54
 ---> 2b2dee66d340
Successfully built 2b2dee66d340
Successfully tagged backend-flask:test
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker image ls
REPOSITORY      TAG                IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
backend-flask   test               2b2dee66d340   4 seconds ago   129MB
python          3.10-slim-buster   934047247b20   20 hours ago    118MB
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker rmi backend-flask:test 
Untagged: backend-flask:test
Deleted: sha256:2b2dee66d340116d2be3be2b21b4e2a64be544393f156688c46a1572e75411f9
Deleted: sha256:088a9e47f6aea017edaaa6928f2634c4dc36460de18dbc20fb8274a27a396842
Deleted: sha256:55b4d21213f9ba5b5f9cd49f9ee031533b90925f7426f4114ae213c82ac3129e
Deleted: sha256:ba7a4fb6d899e7a69786a4bc9e1989c5af325ffb16ffd43c2ef249860101c130
Deleted: sha256:eb305886f1a16742ee92401c6a3f7efc816bd0d8cf3cc4b697ba9ae2cb9d0a92
Deleted: sha256:af551f3164ca23b620f150caf75e2a41d9f6977103286799ac21d06125f8b70d
Deleted: sha256:68681d7346b9d0debfc5ced1ba32ff7466a9752775ede623e3d91727c42cafeb
Deleted: sha256:4201418126111b2652d8ef216f455b204a834fa3f8edb0cc9f3d3e1a5d8cc42f
Deleted: sha256:9ad4f2cb5c082f0faba9f6ad23c10cb4321135ea672601542e1bd7d836cdb820
Deleted: sha256:84c3ed779f2b27eb568c10ef639cf0ede5f96369b976745d7314d01d160e8820
Deleted: sha256:37bbcdab0d7c28d203ad79a2d848fc87a38f843ef2e78e1f330fc554168c6281
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/backend-flask-docker-build-test.png)

#### 1.2.2. Frontend-react-js

- Created a [Dockerfile](../frontend-react-js/Dockerfile)

```dockerfile
FROM node:16.18

ENV PORT=3000

COPY . /frontend-react-js
WORKDIR /frontend-react-js

RUN npm install
EXPOSE ${PORT}
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

- Test `docker build`

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker build -t frontend-react-js:test .
Sending build context to Docker daemon   1.51MB
Step 1/7 : FROM node:16.18
 ---> 993a4cf9c1e8
Step 2/7 : ENV PORT=3000
 ---> Running in 4476467b4b92
Removing intermediate container 4476467b4b92
 ---> 2d18ea64267a
Step 3/7 : COPY . /frontend-react-js
 ---> b53708c7ee54
Step 4/7 : WORKDIR /frontend-react-js
 ---> Running in 907e22a3354f
Removing intermediate container 907e22a3354f
 ---> 2eb2da7f4eb1
Step 5/7 : RUN npm install
 ---> Running in ced0c60237b9
npm WARN deprecated w3c-hr-time@1.0.2: Use your platform's native performance.now() and performance.timeOrigin.
npm WARN deprecated stable@0.1.8: Modern JS already guarantees Array#sort() is a stable sort, so this library is deprecated. See the compatibility table on MDN: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort#browser_compatibility
npm WARN deprecated svgo@1.3.2: This SVGO version is no longer supported. Upgrade to v2.x.x.

added 1471 packages, and audited 1472 packages in 17s

225 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

8 high severity vulnerabilities

To address issues that do not require attention, run:
  npm audit fix

To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
  npm audit fix --force

Run `npm audit` for details.
npm notice 
npm notice New major version of npm available! 8.19.2 -> 9.5.1
npm notice Changelog: <https://github.com/npm/cli/releases/tag/v9.5.1>
npm notice Run `npm install -g npm@9.5.1` to update!
npm notice 
Removing intermediate container ced0c60237b9
 ---> 30f699aa9691
Step 6/7 : EXPOSE ${PORT}
 ---> Running in 734e975763e6
Removing intermediate container 734e975763e6
 ---> aa0d6276c77e
Step 7/7 : CMD ["npm", "start"]
 ---> Running in f10e94b815f9
Removing intermediate container f10e94b815f9
 ---> e7c53d2f47ff
Successfully built e7c53d2f47ff
Successfully tagged frontend-react-js:test
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker image ls
REPOSITORY          TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
frontend-react-js   test      e7c53d2f47ff   35 seconds ago   1.19GB
node                16.18     993a4cf9c1e8   2 months ago     910MB
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker rmi frontend-react-js:test node:16.18 
Untagged: frontend-react-js:test
Deleted: sha256:e7c53d2f47ff4975777e6a215de063fa7a41d7a69d495041a1439c9779551dd2
Deleted: sha256:aa0d6276c77e01bd54fe4af4976f625b433e1a1f46799f06da46890b91b224fd
Deleted: sha256:30f699aa969166c5bdbad0fd3c3dc0707cba41ff8e1a31b8ed8b4c32b05d9d19
Deleted: sha256:1566f243ad64aac48d1426beac0df7d6d0c76ec2f0e5d19f04513a87e6879802
Deleted: sha256:2eb2da7f4eb15b55daef925dcc761ddd254255148a9f5d7588f972cd586dafd4
Deleted: sha256:b53708c7ee54f57762ef6e62435f9e1db367e00949946f338adb279ed97a9420
Deleted: sha256:ddefc03c829a8d8d6ac0f56af0879bd75b37846035c0236cc4429fcfd5e785b7
Deleted: sha256:2d18ea64267a38df7b3b8111ee7be46e436a218e62903621b34a054549054c4f
Untagged: node:16.18
Untagged: node@sha256:7f404d09ceb780c51f4fac7592c46b8f21211474aacce25389eb0df06aaa7472
Deleted: sha256:993a4cf9c1e80aa74567d3deea4dfa1488b94dcb024bfca9246f979845763509
Deleted: sha256:138a8239558b46fe6b960dcc9c40bdd108fe475b336d26c9bdc64a556989a2ac
Deleted: sha256:f21c65291da9a2e5d1333a6f9b65587c218fc766fd5c1e106165bd789fce72f8
Deleted: sha256:144e8cf2307d3547c00d0db36e55685deeb8574424773106eac5a9761977f017
Deleted: sha256:ac9975a42cd57dec25c63387428c6f46f16008062003ee67dad658c3cfa3d33a
Deleted: sha256:8ccfb73d7f0b7964f0687fe1d2862ef21ca78724bd470b4a52992d235409e484
Deleted: sha256:0108b6ee43459e7cc63f0857c157b3a100d5f844c50aa6cdaf97e5076e85a311
Deleted: sha256:a149f77f0d467a0aedf6bc5fe1e7514508df7e2f2108833801542ac143f7d140
Deleted: sha256:1c07cfa520c183a58e72eba5f438f7d00f8c50f97f55ca6ad1842e4649151e48
Deleted: sha256:3943af3b0cbde0bb8da4e4eb5e81efefe52669e9233eeff0ba820ac838121f65
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/frontend-react-js-docker-build-test.png)

#### 1.2.3. Docker-compose

- Created a [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file

```yaml
version: "3.8"

services:
  backend-flask:
    environment:
      FRONTEND_URL: "https://3000-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
      BACKEND_URL: "https://4567-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
    build: ./backend-flask
    ports:
      - "4567:4567"
    volumes:
      - ./backend-flask:/backend-flask

  frontend-react-js:
    environment:
      REACT_APP_BACKEND_URL: "https://4567-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
    build: ./frontend-react-js
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    volumes:
      - ./frontend-react-js:/frontend-react-js

# the name flag is a hack to change the default prepend folder
# name when outputting the image names
networks: 
  internal-network:
    driver: bridge
    name: cruddur
```

- Tests

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-compose-up-gitpod.png)
![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-compose-up.png)

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ curl -X GET https://4567-vlgermanov-awsbootcampc-hsq3j8x77fq.ws-eu88.gitpod.io/api/activities/home -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json"
[
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-23T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-03-02T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Andrew Brown",
    "likes_count": 5,
    "message": "Cloud is fun!",
    "replies": [
      {
        "created_at": "2023-02-23T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
        "handle": "Worf",
        "likes_count": 0,
        "message": "This post has no honor!",
        "replies_count": 0,
        "reply_to_activity_uuid": "68f126b0-1ceb-4a33-88be-d90fa7109eee",
        "reposts_count": 0,
        "uuid": "26e12864-1c26-5c3a-9658-97a10f8fea67"
      }
    ],
    "replies_count": 1,
    "reposts_count": 0,
    "uuid": "68f126b0-1ceb-4a33-88be-d90fa7109eee"
  },
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-18T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-03-06T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Worf",
    "likes": 0,
    "message": "I am out of prune juice",
    "replies": [],
    "uuid": "66e12864-8c26-4c3a-9658-95a10f8fea67"
  },
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-25T20:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-02-26T09:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Garek",
    "likes": 0,
    "message": "My dear doctor, I am just simple tailor",
    "replies": [],
    "uuid": "248959df-3079-4947-b847-9e0892d1bab4"
  }
]
```

### 1.3. Notifications functionality in the applications

#### 1.3.1. Document the Notification Endpoint for the OpenAI Document

- Add the following to the `paths:` section in the [openapi-3.0.yml](../backend-flask/openapi-3.0.yml) file

```yaml
  /api/activities/notifications:
    get:
      description: 'Return a feed of activity for all of those that I follow'
      tags:
        - activities
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Returns an array of activities"
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: array
                items:
                  $ref: '#/components/schemas/Activity'
```

#### 1.3.2. Backend-flask notifications endpoint

- Created a [notifications_activities.py](../backend-flask/services/notifications_activities.py) file
- Modified the [app.py](../backend-flask/app.py) file

Add a new import:

```python
from services.notifications_activities import *
```

Add a new route:

```python
@app.route("/api/activities/notifications", methods=['GET'])
def data_notifications():
  data = NotificationsActivities.run()
  return data, 200
```

#### 1.3.3. Frontend-react-js notifications endpoint

- Created a [NotificationsFeedPage.css](../frontend-react-js/src/pages/NotificationsFeedPage.css) file
- Created a [NotificationsFeedPage.js](../frontend-react-js/src/pages/NotificationsFeedPage.js) file
- Modified the [App.js](../frontend-react-js/src/App.js) file

Add a new import:

```js
import NotificationsFeedPage from './pages/NotificationsFeedPage';
```

Add a new route:

```js
  {
    path: "/notifications",
    element: <NotificationsFeedPage />
  },
```

#### 1.3.4. Testing notifications endpoint

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/notifications-endpoint.png)

### 1.4. Run locally DB containers

#### 1.4.1. DynamoDB Local Container

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following service section

```yaml
services:
  dynamodb-local:
    # https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67533058/persist-local-dynamodb-data-in-volumes-lack-permission-unable-to-open-databa
    # We needed to add user:root to get this working.
    user: root
    command: "-jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb -dbPath ./data"
    image: "amazon/dynamodb-local:latest"
    container_name: dynamodb-local
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    volumes:
      - "./docker/dynamodb:/home/dynamodblocal/data"
    working_dir: /home/dynamodblocal
```

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following volume section

```yaml
volumes:
  dynamodb:
    driver: local
```

- Testing connectivity to DynamoDB Local container

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ docker-compose ps
NAME                IMAGE                          COMMAND                  SERVICE             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
dynamodb-local      amazon/dynamodb-local:latest   "java -jar DynamoDBL…"   dynamodb-local      6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes        0.0.0.0:8000->8000/tcp, :::8000->8000/tcp
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ aws dynamodb list-tables --endpoint-url http://localhost:8000
{
    "TableNames": []
}
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/dynamodb-local.png)

#### 1.4.2. Postgres Container

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following service section

```yaml
services:
  db:
    image: postgres:13-alpine
    restart: always
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    ports:
      - '5432:5432'
    volumes:
      - postgresdb:/var/lib/postgresql/data
```

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following volume section

```yaml
volumes:
  postgresdb:
    driver: local
```

- Testing connectivity to Postgres container

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ docker-compose ps
NAME                             IMAGE                COMMAND                  SERVICE             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023-db-1   postgres:13-alpine   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   db                  3 minutes ago       Up 3 minutes        0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp, :::5432->5432/tcp
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres
Password for user postgres: 
psql (13.10 (Ubuntu 13.10-1.pgdg20.04+1))
Type "help" for help.

postgres=# \l
                                 List of databases
   Name    |  Owner   | Encoding |  Collate   |   Ctype    |   Access privileges   
-----------+----------+----------+------------+------------+-----------------------
 postgres  | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | 
 template0 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | =c/postgres          +
           |          |          |            |            | postgres=CTc/postgres
 template1 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | =c/postgres          +
           |          |          |            |            | postgres=CTc/postgres
(3 rows)

postgres=# \q
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/postgres-local.png)

## 2. Stretched Homework

### 2.1. Build and publish container's images to DockerHub

### 2.2. Multi-stage builds for container images

### 2.3. Implement a `health check` in the docker-compose file

### 2.4. Install docker on my local machine and run the applications locally

### 2.5. Launch an EC2 instance with docker installed and lunch the apps there

### 2.6. Best practices of `Dockerfiles`

Commit message:

week-1: Section 1.4.1 - add note for dynamodb volume

journal/week1.md, after:

# Week 1 — App Containerization

## 1. Required Homework

### 1.1. Review of the week's videos

- [x] Watched: [How to Ask for Technical Help](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDPqmwKMP7Y&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=29)
- [x] Watched: [Grading Homework Summaries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FKAScachFgk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=25)
- [x] Watched: [Week 1 - Live Streamed Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJnNe5Nv4tE&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=22)
- [x] Watched: [Remember to Commit Your Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-idMgFFcpg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=23)
- [x] Watched: [Chirag's Week 1 - Spending Considerations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OAMHu1NiYoI&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=24)
- [x] Watched: [Ashish's Week 1 - Container Security Considerations](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OjZz4D0B-cA&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=25)
- [x] Watched: [Containerize Application (Dockerfiles, Docker Compose)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zJnNe5Nv4tE&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=22)
- [x] Watched: [Document the Notification Endpoint for the OpenAI Document](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27)
> **Note:**
> [OpenAPI Specification v3.1.0](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.1.0)
- [x] Watched: [Write a Flask Backend Endpoint for Notifications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27)
- [x] Watched: [Write a React Page for Notifications](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-_o0cCpksk&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=27) 
> **Note:**
> Registration's confirmation code `hardcoded` to '1234'
- [x] Watched: [Run DynamoDB Local Container and ensure it works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbQNMaa6zTg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=28)
- [x] Watched: [Run Postgres Container and ensure it works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CbQNMaa6zTg&list=PLBfufR7vyJJ7k25byhRXJldB5AiwgNnWv&index=28)

### 1.2. Containerize the applications

#### 1.2.1. Backend-flask

- Created a [Dockerfile](../backend-flask/Dockerfile)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.10-slim-buster

WORKDIR /backend-flask

COPY requirements.txt requirements.txt
RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt

COPY . .

ENV FLASK_ENV=development

EXPOSE 4567

CMD [ "python3", "-m" , "flask", "run", "--host=0.0.0.0", "--port=4567"]
```

- Test `docker build`

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker build -t backend-flask:test .
Sending build context to Docker daemon  33.79kB
Step 1/8 : FROM python:3.10-slim-buster
 ---> 934047247b20
Step 2/8 : WORKDIR /backend-flask
 ---> Running in db01081dadcc
Removing intermediate container db01081dadcc
 ---> 84c3ed779f2b
Step 3/8 : COPY requirements.txt requirements.txt
 ---> 420141812611
Step 4/8 : RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt
 ---> Running in f644ece4d265
Collecting flask
  Downloading Flask-2.2.3-py3-none-any.whl (101 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 101.8/101.8 kB 7.1 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting flask-cors
  Downloading Flask_Cors-3.0.10-py2.py3-none-any.whl (14 kB)
Collecting Werkzeug>=2.2.2
  Downloading Werkzeug-2.2.3-py3-none-any.whl (233 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 233.6/233.6 kB 33.3 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting Jinja2>=3.0
  Downloading Jinja2-3.1.2-py3-none-any.whl (133 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 133.1/133.1 kB 49.2 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting click>=8.0
  Downloading click-8.1.3-py3-none-any.whl (96 kB)
     ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 96.6/96.6 kB 37.2 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Collecting itsdangerous>=2.0
  Downloading itsdangerous-2.1.2-py3-none-any.whl (15 kB)
Collecting Six
  Downloading six-1.16.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl (11 kB)
Collecting MarkupSafe>=2.0
  Downloading MarkupSafe-2.1.2-cp310-cp310-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (25 kB)
Installing collected packages: Six, MarkupSafe, itsdangerous, click, Werkzeug, Jinja2, flask, flask-cors
Successfully installed Jinja2-3.1.2 MarkupSafe-2.1.2 Six-1.16.0 Werkzeug-2.2.3 click-8.1.3 flask-2.2.3 flask-cors-3.0.10 itsdangerous-2.1.2
WARNING: Running pip as the 'root' user can result in broken permissions and conflicting behaviour with the system package manager. It is recommended to use a virtual environment instead: https://pip.pypa.io/warnings/venv

[notice] A new release of pip available: 22.3.1 -> 23.0.1
[notice] To update, run: pip install --upgrade pip
Removing intermediate container f644ece4d265
 ---> af551f3164ca
Step 5/8 : COPY . .
 ---> ba7a4fb6d899
Step 6/8 : ENV FLASK_ENV=development
 ---> Running in 555d0da1d10f
Removing intermediate container 555d0da1d10f
 ---> 55b4d21213f9
Step 7/8 : EXPOSE 4567
 ---> Running in 00979636d271
Removing intermediate container 00979636d271
 ---> 088a9e47f6ae
Step 8/8 : CMD [ "python3", "-m" , "flask", "run", "--host=0.0.0.0", "--port=4567"]
 ---> Running in 21e7fcbc4e54
Removing intermediate container 21e7fcbc4e54
 ---> 2b2dee66d340
Successfully built 2b2dee66d340
Successfully tagged backend-flask:test
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker image ls
REPOSITORY      TAG                IMAGE ID       CREATED         SIZE
backend-flask   test               2b2dee66d340   4 seconds ago   129MB
python          3.10-slim-buster   934047247b20   20 hours ago    118MB
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/backend-flask (main) $ docker rmi backend-flask:test 
Untagged: backend-flask:test
Deleted: sha256:2b2dee66d340116d2be3be2b21b4e2a64be544393f156688c46a1572e75411f9
Deleted: sha256:088a9e47f6aea017edaaa6928f2634c4dc36460de18dbc20fb8274a27a396842
Deleted: sha256:55b4d21213f9ba5b5f9cd49f9ee031533b90925f7426f4114ae213c82ac3129e
Deleted: sha256:ba7a4fb6d899e7a69786a4bc9e1989c5af325ffb16ffd43c2ef249860101c130
Deleted: sha256:eb305886f1a16742ee92401c6a3f7efc816bd0d8cf3cc4b697ba9ae2cb9d0a92
Deleted: sha256:af551f3164ca23b620f150caf75e2a41d9f6977103286799ac21d06125f8b70d
Deleted: sha256:68681d7346b9d0debfc5ced1ba32ff7466a9752775ede623e3d91727c42cafeb
Deleted: sha256:4201418126111b2652d8ef216f455b204a834fa3f8edb0cc9f3d3e1a5d8cc42f
Deleted: sha256:9ad4f2cb5c082f0faba9f6ad23c10cb4321135ea672601542e1bd7d836cdb820
Deleted: sha256:84c3ed779f2b27eb568c10ef639cf0ede5f96369b976745d7314d01d160e8820
Deleted: sha256:37bbcdab0d7c28d203ad79a2d848fc87a38f843ef2e78e1f330fc554168c6281
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/backend-flask-docker-build-test.png)

#### 1.2.2. Frontend-react-js

- Created a [Dockerfile](../frontend-react-js/Dockerfile)

```dockerfile
FROM node:16.18

ENV PORT=3000

COPY . /frontend-react-js
WORKDIR /frontend-react-js

RUN npm install
EXPOSE ${PORT}
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

- Test `docker build`

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker build -t frontend-react-js:test .
Sending build context to Docker daemon   1.51MB
Step 1/7 : FROM node:16.18
 ---> 993a4cf9c1e8
Step 2/7 : ENV PORT=3000
 ---> Running in 4476467b4b92
Removing intermediate container 4476467b4b92
 ---> 2d18ea64267a
Step 3/7 : COPY . /frontend-react-js
 ---> b53708c7ee54
Step 4/7 : WORKDIR /frontend-react-js
 ---> Running in 907e22a3354f
Removing intermediate container 907e22a3354f
 ---> 2eb2da7f4eb1
Step 5/7 : RUN npm install
 ---> Running in ced0c60237b9
npm WARN deprecated w3c-hr-time@1.0.2: Use your platform's native performance.now() and performance.timeOrigin.
npm WARN deprecated stable@0.1.8: Modern JS already guarantees Array#sort() is a stable sort, so this library is deprecated. See the compatibility table on MDN: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort#browser_compatibility
npm WARN deprecated svgo@1.3.2: This SVGO version is no longer supported. Upgrade to v2.x.x.

added 1471 packages, and audited 1472 packages in 17s

225 packages are looking for funding
  run `npm fund` for details

8 high severity vulnerabilities

To address issues that do not require attention, run:
  npm audit fix

To address all issues (including breaking changes), run:
  npm audit fix --force

Run `npm audit` for details.
npm notice 
npm notice New major version of npm available! 8.19.2 -> 9.5.1
npm notice Changelog: <https://github.com/npm/cli/releases/tag/v9.5.1>
npm notice Run `npm install -g npm@9.5.1` to update!
npm notice 
Removing intermediate container ced0c60237b9
 ---> 30f699aa9691
Step 6/7 : EXPOSE ${PORT}
 ---> Running in 734e975763e6
Removing intermediate container 734e975763e6
 ---> aa0d6276c77e
Step 7/7 : CMD ["npm", "start"]
 ---> Running in f10e94b815f9
Removing intermediate container f10e94b815f9
 ---> e7c53d2f47ff
Successfully built e7c53d2f47ff
Successfully tagged frontend-react-js:test
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker image ls
REPOSITORY          TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
frontend-react-js   test      e7c53d2f47ff   35 seconds ago   1.19GB
node                16.18     993a4cf9c1e8   2 months ago     910MB
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023/frontend-react-js (main) $ docker rmi frontend-react-js:test node:16.18 
Untagged: frontend-react-js:test
Deleted: sha256:e7c53d2f47ff4975777e6a215de063fa7a41d7a69d495041a1439c9779551dd2
Deleted: sha256:aa0d6276c77e01bd54fe4af4976f625b433e1a1f46799f06da46890b91b224fd
Deleted: sha256:30f699aa969166c5bdbad0fd3c3dc0707cba41ff8e1a31b8ed8b4c32b05d9d19
Deleted: sha256:1566f243ad64aac48d1426beac0df7d6d0c76ec2f0e5d19f04513a87e6879802
Deleted: sha256:2eb2da7f4eb15b55daef925dcc761ddd254255148a9f5d7588f972cd586dafd4
Deleted: sha256:b53708c7ee54f57762ef6e62435f9e1db367e00949946f338adb279ed97a9420
Deleted: sha256:ddefc03c829a8d8d6ac0f56af0879bd75b37846035c0236cc4429fcfd5e785b7
Deleted: sha256:2d18ea64267a38df7b3b8111ee7be46e436a218e62903621b34a054549054c4f
Untagged: node:16.18
Untagged: node@sha256:7f404d09ceb780c51f4fac7592c46b8f21211474aacce25389eb0df06aaa7472
Deleted: sha256:993a4cf9c1e80aa74567d3deea4dfa1488b94dcb024bfca9246f979845763509
Deleted: sha256:138a8239558b46fe6b960dcc9c40bdd108fe475b336d26c9bdc64a556989a2ac
Deleted: sha256:f21c65291da9a2e5d1333a6f9b65587c218fc766fd5c1e106165bd789fce72f8
Deleted: sha256:144e8cf2307d3547c00d0db36e55685deeb8574424773106eac5a9761977f017
Deleted: sha256:ac9975a42cd57dec25c63387428c6f46f16008062003ee67dad658c3cfa3d33a
Deleted: sha256:8ccfb73d7f0b7964f0687fe1d2862ef21ca78724bd470b4a52992d235409e484
Deleted: sha256:0108b6ee43459e7cc63f0857c157b3a100d5f844c50aa6cdaf97e5076e85a311
Deleted: sha256:a149f77f0d467a0aedf6bc5fe1e7514508df7e2f2108833801542ac143f7d140
Deleted: sha256:1c07cfa520c183a58e72eba5f438f7d00f8c50f97f55ca6ad1842e4649151e48
Deleted: sha256:3943af3b0cbde0bb8da4e4eb5e81efefe52669e9233eeff0ba820ac838121f65
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/frontend-react-js-docker-build-test.png)

#### 1.2.3. Docker-compose

- Created a [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file

```yaml
version: "3.8"

services:
  backend-flask:
    environment:
      FRONTEND_URL: "https://3000-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
      BACKEND_URL: "https://4567-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
    build: ./backend-flask
    ports:
      - "4567:4567"
    volumes:
      - ./backend-flask:/backend-flask

  frontend-react-js:
    environment:
      REACT_APP_BACKEND_URL: "https://4567-${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_ID}.${GITPOD_WORKSPACE_CLUSTER_HOST}"
    build: ./frontend-react-js
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    volumes:
      - ./frontend-react-js:/frontend-react-js

# the name flag is a hack to change the default prepend folder
# name when outputting the image names
networks: 
  internal-network:
    driver: bridge
    name: cruddur
```

- Tests

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-compose-up-gitpod.png)
![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-compose-up.png)

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ curl -X GET https://4567-vlgermanov-awsbootcampc-hsq3j8x77fq.ws-eu88.gitpod.io/api/activities/home -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json"
[
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-23T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-03-02T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Andrew Brown",
    "likes_count": 5,
    "message": "Cloud is fun!",
    "replies": [
      {
        "created_at": "2023-02-23T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
        "handle": "Worf",
        "likes_count": 0,
        "message": "This post has no honor!",
        "replies_count": 0,
        "reply_to_activity_uuid": "68f126b0-1ceb-4a33-88be-d90fa7109eee",
        "reposts_count": 0,
        "uuid": "26e12864-1c26-5c3a-9658-97a10f8fea67"
      }
    ],
    "replies_count": 1,
    "reposts_count": 0,
    "uuid": "68f126b0-1ceb-4a33-88be-d90fa7109eee"
  },
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-18T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-03-06T21:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Worf",
    "likes": 0,
    "message": "I am out of prune juice",
    "replies": [],
    "uuid": "66e12864-8c26-4c3a-9658-95a10f8fea67"
  },
  {
    "created_at": "2023-02-25T20:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "expires_at": "2023-02-26T09:15:56.577144+00:00",
    "handle": "Garek",
    "likes": 0,
    "message": "My dear doctor, I am just simple tailor",
    "replies": [],
    "uuid": "248959df-3079-4947-b847-9e0892d1bab4"
  }
]
```

### 1.3. Notifications functionality in the applications

#### 1.3.1. Document the Notification Endpoint for the OpenAI Document

- Add the following to the `paths:` section in the [openapi-3.0.yml](../backend-flask/openapi-3.0.yml) file

```yaml
  /api/activities/notifications:
    get:
      description: 'Return a feed of activity for all of those that I follow'
      tags:
        - activities
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Returns an array of activities"
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: array
                items:
                  $ref: '#/components/schemas/Activity'
```

#### 1.3.2. Backend-flask notifications endpoint

- Created a [notifications_activities.py](../backend-flask/services/notifications_activities.py) file
- Modified the [app.py](../backend-flask/app.py) file

Add a new import:

```python
from services.notifications_activities import *
```

Add a new route:

```python
@app.route("/api/activities/notifications", methods=['GET'])
def data_notifications():
  data = NotificationsActivities.run()
  return data, 200
```

#### 1.3.3. Frontend-react-js notifications endpoint

- Created a [NotificationsFeedPage.css](../frontend-react-js/src/pages/NotificationsFeedPage.css) file
- Created a [NotificationsFeedPage.js](../frontend-react-js/src/pages/NotificationsFeedPage.js) file
- Modified the [App.js](../frontend-react-js/src/App.js) file

Add a new import:

```js
import NotificationsFeedPage from './pages/NotificationsFeedPage';
```

Add a new route:

```js
  {
    path: "/notifications",
    element: <NotificationsFeedPage />
  },
```

#### 1.3.4. Testing notifications endpoint

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/notifications-endpoint.png)

### 1.4. Run locally DB containers

#### 1.4.1. DynamoDB Local Container

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following service section

```yaml
services:
  dynamodb-local:
    # https://stackoverflow.com/questions/67533058/persist-local-dynamodb-data-in-volumes-lack-permission-unable-to-open-databa
    # We needed to add user:root to get this working.
    user: root
    command: "-jar DynamoDBLocal.jar -sharedDb -dbPath ./data"
    image: "amazon/dynamodb-local:latest"
    container_name: dynamodb-local
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    volumes:
      - "./docker/dynamodb:/home/dynamodblocal/data"
    working_dir: /home/dynamodblocal
```

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following volume section

```yaml
volumes:
  dynamodb:
    driver: local
```

> **Note:**
> I used named volume for the dynamodb local container - with this approach it is not needed to
> exclude `./docker/dynamodb` directory with `.gitignore` file

- Testing connectivity to DynamoDB Local container

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ docker-compose ps
NAME                IMAGE                          COMMAND                  SERVICE             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
dynamodb-local      amazon/dynamodb-local:latest   "java -jar DynamoDBL…"   dynamodb-local      6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes        0.0.0.0:8000->8000/tcp, :::8000->8000/tcp
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ aws dynamodb list-tables --endpoint-url http://localhost:8000
{
    "TableNames": []
}
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/dynamodb-local.png)

#### 1.4.2. Postgres Container

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following service section

```yaml
services:
  db:
    image: postgres:13-alpine
    restart: always
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_USER=postgres
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password
    ports:
      - '5432:5432'
    volumes:
      - postgresdb:/var/lib/postgresql/data
```

- Modify the [docker-compose.yml](../docker-compose.yml) file to add the following volume section

```yaml
volumes:
  postgresdb:
    driver: local
```

- Testing connectivity to Postgres container

```shell
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ docker-compose ps
NAME                             IMAGE                COMMAND                  SERVICE             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS
aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023-db-1   postgres:13-alpine   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   db                  3 minutes ago       Up 3 minutes        0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp, :::5432->5432/tcp
gitpod /workspace/aws-bootcamp-cruddur-2023 (main) $ psql -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres
Password for user postgres: 
psql (13.10 (Ubuntu 13.10-1.pgdg20.04+1))
Type "help" for help.

postgres=# \l
                                 List of databases
   Name    |  Owner   | Encoding |  Collate   |   Ctype    |   Access privileges   
-----------+----------+----------+------------+------------+-----------------------
 postgres  | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | 
 template0 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | =c/postgres          +
           |          |          |            |            | postgres=CTc/postgres
 template1 | postgres | UTF8     | en_US.utf8 | en_US.utf8 | =c/postgres          +
           |          |          |            |            | postgres=CTc/postgres
(3 rows)

postgres=# \q
```

![image](../_docs/assets/week-1/postgres-local.png)

## 2. Stretched Homework

### 2.1. Build and publish container's images to DockerHub

### 2.2. Multi-stage builds for container images

### 2.3. Implement a `health check` in the docker-compose file

### 2.4. Install docker on my local machine and run the applications locally

### 2.5. Launch an EC2 instance with docker installed and lunch the apps there

### 2.6. Best practices of `Dockerfiles`
